# NICE Atopic Eczema in Under 12s (CG57)

Specialty: DermatologyAgent
Source URL: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg57
Fetched At: 2026-02-22T22:46:16Z

---

Overview | Atopic eczema in under 12s: diagnosis and management | Guidance | NICE You are here: Home NICE Guidance Conditions and diseases Skin conditions Eczema Atopic eczema in under 12s: diagnosis and management Clinical guideline Reference number: CG57 Published: 12 December 2007 Last updated: 22 September 2025 Guidance Tools and resources Information for the public Evidence History Download guidance (PDF) Overview Recommendations Recommendations for research Rationale and impact The algorithm Context Finding more information and committee details Update information Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and managing atopic eczema in children under 12. It aims to improve care for children with atopic eczema by making detailed recommendations on treatment and specialist referral. The guideline also explains how healthcare professionals should assess the effect eczema has on quality of life, in addition to its physical severity. Last reviewed: 22 September 2025 We reviewed the evidence and amended the section on complementary therapies, washing and clothing . We also added a link to an education resource to the section on education and adherence to therapy . See the September 2025 surveillance decision for details. Next review: This guideline will be reviewed if there is new evidence that is likely to change the recommendations. How we prioritise updating our guidance Decisions about updating our guidance are made by NICE’s prioritisation board. For more information on the principles and process, see NICE-wide topic prioritisation: the manual . For information about individual topics, including any decisions affecting this guideline, see the summary table of prioritisation board decisions . Recommendations This guideline includes recommendations on: diagnosis assessing severity, psychological and psychosocial wellbeing and quality of life identifying and managing trigger factors treatment indications for referral Who is it for? Healthcare professionals Commissioners and providers Children under 12 with suspected or diagnosed atopic eczema and their families or carers Guideline development process How we develop NICE guidelines This guideline was previously called atopic eczema in children: management of atopic eczema in children from birth up to the age of 12 years. Your responsibility The recommendations in this guideline represent the view of NICE, arrived at after careful consideration of the evidence available. When exercising their judgement, professionals and practitioners are expected to take this guideline fully into account, alongside the individual needs, preferences and values of their patients or the people using their service. It is not mandatory to apply the recommendations, and the guideline does not override the responsibility to make decisions appropriate to the circumstances of the individual, in consultation with them and their families and carers or guardian. All problems (adverse events) related to a medicine or medical device used for treatment or in a procedure should be reported to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency using the Yellow Card Scheme . Local commissioners and providers of healthcare have a responsibility to enable the guideline to be applied when individual professionals and people using services wish to use it. They should do so in the context of local and national priorities for funding and developing services, and in light of their duties to have due regard to the need to eliminate unlawful discrimination, to advance equality of opportunity and to reduce health inequalities. Nothing in this guideline should be interpreted in a way that would be inconsistent with complying with those duties. Commissioners and providers have a responsibility to promote an environmentally sustainable health and care system and should assess and reduce the environmental impact of implementing NICE recommendations wherever possible. Related quality standards Atopic eczema in under 12s Next page Recommendations Back to top
