# AHA Stroke Warning Signs

Specialty: NeurologyAgent
Source URL: https://www.stroke.org/en/about-stroke/stroke-symptoms
Fetched At: 2026-02-22T22:46:19Z

---

Stroke Symptoms and Warning Signs | American Stroke Association Skip to main content English English Español Stroke Symptoms Volunteer ShopHeart Donate Donate Search Search American Stroke Association About Stroke About Stroke Stroke Facts: Quick Access Guide Stroke Symptoms Stroke Risk Factors Types of Stroke and Treatment Effects of Stroke Stroke in Children LGBTQ+ and Stroke Life After Stroke Life After Stroke Living with the Effects of Stroke Preventing Another Stroke Recovery Recursos en español Stroke Rehab Support Stroke Connection e-News Help and Support Help and Support Stroke Support Group Finder Caregiver Support Support Network Stroke Family Warm Line Resource Library Financial Resources Support Group Leader Resources FindHelp Hospital Map Stroke Hero Awards Stroke Connection e-News Healthy Living Healthy Living Brain Health Healthy Eating Recipes Healthy Lifestyle Physical Activity Professionals Professionals Stroke Quality Improvement Stroke Resource Library Stroke Journals and Guidelines Get Involved Get Involved Advocate Cycle Nation Research Goes Red Volunteer Ways To Give Ways to Give Monthly Giving Honor a Loved One Make a Memorial Gift Create a Tribute Page Raise Your Way Gifts of Stock and Mutual Funds Donor Advised Fund Planned Giving Fundraising Events Cor Vitae Society Paul Dudley White Legacy Society Paul Dudley White Legacy Society Kids Heart Challenge American Heart Challenge Social Impact Funds Heritage Brick Walk Retail Partners About Us About the American Stroke Association About Stroke About Stroke Stroke Facts: Quick Access Guide Stroke Symptoms Stroke Risk Factors Controllable Risk Factors Diabetes High Blood Pressure Uncontrollable Risk Factors Women and Stroke Types of Stroke and Treatment Ischemic Stroke Hemorrhagic Stroke Transient Ischemic Attack Cryptogenic Stroke Brain Stem Stroke Effects of Stroke Physical Effects Communication and Aphasia Cognitive Effects Emotional and Behavioral Effects Vision and Hearing Stroke in Children LGBTQ+ and Stroke Life After Stroke Life After Stroke Living with the Effects of Stroke Preventing Another Stroke Recovery Managing Your Stroke Daily Living Home Modifications Return to Work Survivor Recipes Exercise Recursos en español Stroke Rehab Help and Support Stroke Connection e-News Stroke Onward Share Your Story Help and Support Help and Support Stroke Support Group Finder Caregiver Support Support Network Stroke Family Warm Line Resource Library Financial Resources Support Group Leader Resources FindHelp Hospital Map Stroke Hero Awards Stroke Connection e-News Stroke Onward Share Your Story Healthy Living Healthy Living Brain Health Healthy Eating Fruits and Veggies Eat Smart Grocery Shopping Heart-Check Foods Healthy Weight Meal Prep Recipes Healthy Lifestyle Mental Health and Well-Being Sleep Stress Management Quit Smoking Taking Your Medication Talking to Your Doctor Physical Activity Exercises for Stroke Survivors Professionals Professionals Stroke Professional Community Stroke Resource Library Prevention Pre Hospital/EMS Acute Treatment Cryptogenic Stroke Initiative Post Stroke Care Stroke Resources in Spanish R.Á.P.I.D.O. Resources Stroke Quality Improvement Stroke Certification International Stroke Certification Stroke Journals and Guidelines Get Involved Get Involved Ways to Give Monthly Giving Honor a Loved One Make a Memorial Gift Create a Tribute Page Gifts of Stock and Mutual Funds Donor Advised Fund Planned Giving Fundraising Events Cor Vitae Society Paul Dudley White Legacy Society Raise Your Way Social Impact Funds Heritage Brick Walk Retail Supporters Kids Heart Challenge American Heart Challenge Advocate Cycle Nation Research Goes Red Volunteer Stroke Symptoms English English Español Home About Stroke Stroke Symptoms Stroke Symptoms By learning and sharing the F.A.S.T. warning signs of stroke, you just might save a life from stroke. Call 911 if these warning signs of stroke are present F.A.S.T. Warning Signs of Stroke Use the letters in F.A.S.T. to spot a Stroke F = Face Drooping – Does one side of the face droop or is it numb? Ask the person to smile. Is the person's smile uneven? A = Arm Weakness – Is one arm weak or numb? Ask the person to raise both arms. Does one arm drift downward? S = Speech Difficulty – Is speech slurred? T = Time to call 911 – Stroke is an emergency. Every minute counts. Call 911 immediately. Note the time when any of the symptoms first appear. Other Stroke Symptoms Watch for Sudden: NUMBNESS or weakness of face, arm, or leg, especially on one side of the body CONFUSION, trouble speaking or understanding speech TROUBLE SEEING in one or both eyes TROUBLE WALKING , dizziness, loss of balance or coordination SEVERE HEADACHE with no known cause The F.A.S.T. Experience In this fun and interactive environment, you’ll learn what the warning signs of stroke might look, feel and/or sound like. Play the games Be prepared – Learn more about the stroke warning signs and symptoms. Why is knowing F.A.S.T. stroke warning signs important? Stroke is the No. 4 cause of death and a leading cause of disability in the U.S. Stroke can happen to anyone — any age, any time — and everyone needs to know the warning signs. On average, 1.9 million brain cells die every minute that a stroke goes untreated. Stroke is an emergency . Call 911 immediately. Early treatment leads to higher survival rates and lower disability rates. Calling 911 lets first responders start treatment on someone experiencing stroke symptoms before arriving at the hospital. View our F.A.S.T. patient and community resources Are the symptoms of a stroke different for men and women? Men and women who have strokes often feel similar symptoms of stroke, such as face drooping, arm weakness and speech difficulty. Other common signs for both women and men include problems seeing out of one or both eyes and balance or coordination problems. Women can also experience: General weakness Disorientation and confusion or memory problems Fatigue, nausea or vomiting However, some signs of stroke in women can be subtle enough to be missed or brushed off. That can lead to delays in getting time-sensitive, lifesaving treatments. Learn more about how men and women experience stroke symptoms differently Can recognizing a stroke save your life? If you’re having a stroke, it’s critical that you get medical attention right away. Immediate treatment may minimize the long-term effects of a stroke and even prevent death. Thanks to recent advances, stroke treatments and survival rates have improved greatly over the last decade. But in order to seek treatment, you must recognize the signs and symptoms of a stroke and know what to do: Face drooping Arm difficulty Speech slurring Time to call 911 What are Silent Strokes and do they have symptoms? Silent strokes are undetected strokes. They occur when a blood vessel blockage in the brain causes cells to die, but no warning signs or symptoms are obvious. About one-fourth of people over age 80 have at least one such area of tissue death, known as a "silent infarct," in the brain. The condition is more common with increasing age, and in people who smoke or have a history of vascular disease (conditions that affect your blood vessels). Experts estimate that 10 silent strokes occur for every stroke with detectable symptoms. Despite being called "silent," these infarcts have been linked to subtle problems in a person's movement and mental processing. They also are linked to future risk for stroke and dementia. Silent infarcts can be seen in patients through advanced brain imaging techniques such as MRI and CT. Learn more about the effect of stroke How are the symptoms of strokes that occur in the back part of the brain (posterior circulation strokes) different? Posterior circulations strokes (a stroke that occurs in the back part of the brain) occur when a blood vessel in the back part of the brain is blocked, causing the death of brain cells (called an infarction) in the area of the blocked blood vessel. This type of stroke can also be caused by a ruptured blood vessel in the back part of the brain. When this type of stroke happens, several symptoms occur and they can be very different than the symptoms that occur in the blood circulation to the front part of the brain (called anterior circulation strokes). Symptoms include: Vertigo, sensation like the room is spinning Imbalance or one-sided arm or leg weakness Slurred speech or difficulty in speech (dysarthria) Double vision or other vision problems A headache Nausea and/or vomiting What are the signs and symptoms of a warning stroke (mini-stroke)? A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a warning stroke, but is commonly referred to by the public as a mini-stroke. TIA is a medical emergency with the same symptoms as ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes . Because most TIA symptoms last from only a few minutes up to 24 hours, they are often dismissed and not taken seriously. TIAs, which occur before about 15% of strokes, are considered "warning strokes" — they are associated with additional TIAs, full-blown strokes or other cardiovascular problems later. Most of these later health problems happen within just days or weeks of the TIA, so early interventions to reduce risk are vital. Remember "F.A.S.T." to know when to call for help: F = Face drooping A = Arm weakness S = Speech difficulty T = Time to call 911 If you or someone with you is experiencing these or other stroke symptoms, urgent medical evaluation and treatment are needed. Check the time so you'll know when the first symptoms appeared. Call 911 even if the symptoms go away. Learn more about diagnosing and treating and preventing another TIA or severe stroke ¿Qué es un accidente o derrame cerebral? Un accidente o derrame cerebral ocurre cuando se bl oquea el flujo de sangre en las arterias que nutren el cerebro, o cuando ocurre un sangrado en el cerebro mismo o en las membranas que lo rodean. Las mujeres, los hispanos y los afroamericanos en los Estados Unidos tienen mayor riesgo para el accidente o derrame cerebral. Aprenda más en derramecerebral.org Stroke Survivor Story: Manuel Vera Read Manuel’s Survivor Story Experiencing face drooping—a stroke symptom—his ischemic stroke came “out of the blue.” Recognizing that he was having a stroke prompted a trip to the ER. Manuel’s unexpected stroke resulted in good outcomes as his rehab team helped him reach a big goal. R.Á.P.I.D.O. Copyright ©2024, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston. All rights reserved. Stroke Family Warmline: 1-888-4-STROKE or 1-888-478-7653 Monday-Friday: 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. CST Stroke.org/speakwithus *All health/medical information on this website has been reviewed and approved by the American Heart Association, based on scientific research and American Heart Association guidelines. Find more information on our content editorial process . Contact Us National Center 7272 Greenville Ave. Dallas, TX 75231 Customer Service 1-800-242-8721 Contact Us Hours Monday - Friday: 7 a.m. – 7 p.m. CT Saturday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. CT Closed on Sundays Tax Identification Number 13-5613797 About Us About Us About the American Stroke Association Annual Report Financial Information Careers International Programs Latest Heart and Stroke News Media Newsroom Get Involved Get Involved Donate Now Make a Memorial Gift Ways to Give Advocate Volunteer ShopHeart ShopCPR Our Sites Our Sites American Heart Association CPR & ECC Professional Heart Daily More Sites Careers Privacy Policy Medical Advice Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Copyright Policy Ethics Policy Conflict of Interest Policy Linking Policy Whistleblower Policy Content Editorial Guidelines Suppliers & Providers State Fundraising Notices Cookie Settings ©2026 American Heart Association, Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized use prohibited. The American Heart Association is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. *Red Dress ™ DHHS, Go Red ™ AHA ; National Wear Red Day® is a registered trademark. Speed Bump × This link is provided for convenience only and is not an endorsement of either the linked-to entity or any product or service. Proceed
