# NICE Suspected Cancer Recognition (NG12)

Specialty: OncologyAgent
Source URL: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng12
Fetched At: 2026-02-22T22:46:04Z

---

Overview | Suspected cancer: recognition and referral | Guidance | NICE You are here: Home NICE Guidance Conditions and diseases Blood and immune system conditions Blood and bone marrow cancers Suspected cancer: recognition and referral NICE guideline Reference number: NG12 Published: 23 June 2015 Last updated: 12 January 2026 Guidance Tools and resources Information for the public Evidence History Download guidance (PDF) Overview Introduction Recommendations organised by site of cancer Recommendations on patient support, safety netting and the diagnostic process Recommendations organised by symptom and findings of primary care investigations Terms used in this guideline Recommendations for research Rationale and impact Context Finding more information and committee details Update information Overview This guideline covers identifying children, young people and adults with symptoms that could be caused by cancer. It outlines appropriate investigations in primary care, and selection of people to refer for a specialist opinion. It aims to help people understand what to expect if they have symptoms that may suggest cancer. Last reviewed: 01 May 2025 We updated recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.7 in the section on upper gastrointestinal cancers to recommend a suspected cancer pathway referral for people with symptoms indicating a 3% or more probability of having oesophageal or stomach cancer. For full details, see the update information . This guideline updates and replaces NICE guideline CG27 (June 2005) and updates and replaces recommendations in NICE guideline CG121 (April 2011). Planned updates In March 2025, we reviewed the evidence and plan to update the non-specific symptoms relating to unexplained weight loss . See the March 2025 surveillance decision for further details. In September 2024, we reviewed this guideline and plan to update recommendations on suspected endometrial cancer . See the September 2024 surveillance decisions for further details. In May 2024, we reviewed this guideline and plan to update recommendations on suspected ovarian cancer . See the May 2024 surveillance decision for further details. How we prioritise updating our guidance Decisions about updating our guidance are made by NICE’s prioritisation board. For more information on the principles and process see NICE-wide topic prioritisation: the manual . For information about individual topics, including any decisions affecting this guideline, see the summary table of prioritisation board decisions . Recommendations This guideline includes recommendations on the symptoms and signs that warrant investigation and referral for suspected cancer. The recommendations are organised by: the site of the suspected cancer the symptom , alphabetically then in order of urgency of the action needed the findings of primary care investigations The guideline includes recommendations on: symptoms in children and young people information and support for people with suspected cancer and their families and/or carers active monitoring in primary care of people who have presented with symptoms (safety netting) best practice in the diagnostic process Who is it for? Healthcare professionals People involved in clinical governance in both primary and secondary care People with suspected cancer and their families and/or carers Guideline development process How we develop NICE guidelines Your responsibility The recommendations in this guideline represent the view of NICE, arrived at after careful consideration of the evidence available. When exercising their judgement, professionals and practitioners are expected to take this guideline fully into account, alongside the individual needs, preferences and values of their patients or the people using their service. It is not mandatory to apply the recommendations, and the guideline does not override the responsibility to make decisions appropriate to the circumstances of the individual, in consultation with them and their families and carers or guardian. All problems (adverse events) related to a medicine or medical device used for treatment or in a procedure should be reported to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency using the Yellow Card Scheme . Local commissioners and providers of healthcare have a responsibility to enable the guideline to be applied when individual professionals and people using services wish to use it. They should do so in the context of local and national priorities for funding and developing services, and in light of their duties to have due regard to the need to eliminate unlawful discrimination, to advance equality of opportunity and to reduce health inequalities. Nothing in this guideline should be interpreted in a way that would be inconsistent with complying with those duties. Commissioners and providers have a responsibility to promote an environmentally sustainable health and care system and should assess and reduce the environmental impact of implementing NICE recommendations wherever possible. Related quality standards Suspected cancer Skin cancer Brain tumours (primary) and brain metastases in over 16s Urinary tract infections in adults Dyspepsia and gastro‑oesophageal reflux disease in adults Next page Introduction Back to top
